So far in this lesson,
we've explored how to determine if pages are helping conversions.
But how do we know if other behaviors tracked as events are helping conversions?
Unfortunately, it's a little bit more difficult.
For one thing, there's no equivalent of the page value metric for events,
and we can't use events as funnel steps in goal funnels.
To determine if events are assisting conversions,
we're going to take advantage of segments including sequence segments.
Sequence segments can be based on either page views or events or both.
Importantly, you can configure sequence segments at either session-scope or users-scope.
So, we can see the effect of an event on conversions in a later session.
Also, unlike goals and goal funnels and
page value sequence segments and all segments are retroactive.
A drawback of course is that we would need to create a separate segment
for each event we're trying to analyze in terms of how it's helping conversions.
If we go back to the events examples that we saw in an earlier course,
one of the interactions that we would want to track as an event is Live Chat.
We would want to know not only how often Live Chat is occurring,
but is Live Chat helping conversions?
Now, of course assuming that you have captured Live Chat as an event,
the process for determining
if Live Chat is helping conversions would consist of three steps.
As the first step, we would want to create
a simple behavioral segment based on the Live Chat event,
then we would want to create a sequence segment
based on the Live Chat event leading up to the conversion.
Then we would want to apply both of the segments to
the goal overview or e-commerce overview report.
We would want to view a segmented report that looked something like this.
Let's see how we would define the segments to apply to
this report and then we'll come back and look at some of the metrics more closely.
To create a basic segment for all users who initiated
a Live Chat event we could just create
a basic segment based on event category and event action.
Notice that we changed the scope from sessions to users.
Of course, the benefit here is that we're going to be able to see the impact
of an event in one session and conversions in potentially a later session.
Another type of segment that we'll want to define will be the sequence segment,
where we're not only saying that we want to see users who started a Live Chat,
but also those users who generated a transaction.
This sequence segment looks like the sequence segments that we saw in a previous lesson.
Again, it's helping us to evaluate if an event is leading to conversions.
As we saw previously we could also create
a sequence segment based on page views leading to conversions as well.
With these two segments applied to the e-commerce overview report,
we see to begin with,
that the conversion rate is much higher for users who initiated a Live Chat,
this is good, but we need to validate
if the Live Chat was occurring before the transactions.
The sequence segment answers this question.
We could see that of the revenue in Live Chat sessions most of that revenue
came when Live Chat occurred before
the e-commerce transaction and same thing for transaction count.
So, while it is a little bit harder NGA to determine to
support that events are providing to e-commerce transactions or to goal completions,
segments and specifically sequence segments,
help our analysis and they also provide
a multi-session perspective that we can't get within the funnel reports.